# Exploring the Challenges and Limitations of QUIC Monitoring

QUIC is a transport layer protocol that aims to improve the performance of web applications by reducing latency and improving security. QUIC is designed to be faster than TCP, extensible, and secure by default. However, QUIC runs as a userspace protocol on top of UDP, which means that traditional monitoring tools that rely on the kernel's network stack cannot understand QUIC traffic. Furthermore, QUIC’s always-on encryption extends to the protocol header, exposing little to no information to middleboxes and turning flow monitoring into a daunting task.

This project aims to explore the challenges and limitations of gathering and analyzing QUIC traffic, considering the implications for network monitoring, security, and performance. The project will first focus on conducting an extensive literature review on QUIC monitoring, which has garnered considerable attention in recent years as QUIC received full support in modern browsers. Then, the project will involve setting up a test environment to capture and analyze QUIC traffic, evaluating the monitoring tools and techniques found in the state of the art. After the testbed has been set up, the student will propose solutions to address the challenges of QUIC monitoring, highlighting the difference with classic approaches and potentially leading to the development of new monitoring tools or techniques. As a further step, the testbed could be used for gathering and generating datasets for further research on QUIC monitoring, given the overall lack of data in the field.
